28/08/19 - Just created journal, Today we given several challenges. The first challenge was to calculate the sum of the numbers from 1 to 200. I learned that the sum was the number of terms multiplied by the average of the first and last terms. Afterwards we were given a collection of letters and words that we had to decipher. I discovered ROT 13, basically the way it worked was replacing each letter with 13th letter after it. The words decoded revealed "What is essential is invisible to the eye. See library checkout computer Happy.jpg" which lead us to go the library computer. I learned that we could use terminal to open files. We used terminal to open Happy.jpg, which revealed the last message. We did not time left afterwards to finish the challenge.
02/09/19 - I learned about the context for which a new system is planned, which may be to increase productivity or minimize costs, and to anticipate issues that might occur, a feasibility test should be conducted. There should be 5 feasibility test conducted, which was Technical, Economic, Legal, Operational, and Schedule. Afterwards, I learned basic commands that can be used in Terminal. E.g who, pwd, cd, ls, mkdir, echo, rm, ifconfig, mv, and more. The few things I thought were useful was creating and moving files, deleting files, and checking my ip. I was also taught the beginning of programming using Terminal using nano. Something that I thought was interesting was that each digit in an IP address could only go up to 256. 
03/09/19 - I learned about the need for a change in a management, a key point was if there were to be a change in management, all the employees of the company would have to be educated and trained to use the new system. I also learned more basic bash terminal commands. To name one, I learned the echo command, which allows the user to make the computer say a statement or whatever placed in the the quotation marks when the program is activated. So far I'm really finding this course interesting and engaging, I'm really enjoying learning bash even without any background knowledge. 
04/09/19 - Today learned how to check a range using terminal, so for example we could ask the user to choose a number and if we put a range of 0 to 5, the computer can detect whether the range is valid. We also learned about the compatibility issues that may occur from legacy systems and business mergers. We were given homework to program a ramen shop wherein the user could order several items and we would also have to calculate the tax, I found it pretty challenging because I can't figure out how to program bash to calculate tax and add it to the ramen prices as well as allowing the user to order several things at the same time.


